AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH my report for humani**tities**:

Jayden Cuhat

Class Report: 1
Part A: Paranoia (Paranoid Personality Disorder)

Level 1 - Knowledge: Defining Paranoia
1. According to Oxford Languages, Paranoia is “a mental condition characterised by delusions of persecution, unwarranted jealousy, or exaggerated self-importance, typically elaborated into an organised system. It may be an aspect of chronic personality disorder, of drug abuse, or of a serious condition such as schizophrenia in which the person loses touch with reality.”
Paraphrase: Paranoia is a mental condition where a patient suffering from paranoia experiences the feelings of distrust, jealousy, feelings that one is trying to harm them. 
Opinion: I believe this definition explores many of the different things that go through a paranoiac person’s mind and how they all tie together.
2. According to Merriam-Webster, Paranoia is a “mental illness characterised by systematised delusions of persecution or grandeur usually without hallucinations”
Paraphrase: Paranoid is distinguished by methodized thoughts and beliefs that something is after them.
Opinion: I believe this gives a brief explanation of what paranoia is to a person who’s never heard of the mental illness.
3. According to webmd, “Paranoia is the feeling that you’re being threatened in some way, such as people watching you or acting against you, even though there’s no proof that it’s true. It happens to a lot of people at some point. Even when you know that your concerns aren’t based in reality, they can be troubling if they happen too often.”
Paraphrase: People suffering from paranoia are terrorized by the delusion that anyone could be after them besides the fact that it isn’t true.
Opinion: This definition further confirms the point that paranoia is located in the mind as even though it isn’t true, they still believe someone is after them. 

Level 2 - Comprehension: Facts Surrounding Paranoia
1. According to mid.org.uk, “Lack of sleep can trigger feelings of insecurity and even unsettling feelings and hallucinations. Fears and worries may develop late at night. The effects of recreational drugs and alcohol. Some types of recreational drugs may trigger paranoia, such as cocaine, cannabis, alcohol, ecstasy, LSD and amphetamines.”
Paraphrase: Paranoia can be triggered by many things such as being fatigued and many effects of recreational drugs.
Opinion: This fact helps with understanding what kind of behaviour could result in a paranoiac episode. The quote explains the most common causes and lists many examples of what to avoid.
	2. According to merckmanuals.com, paranoiac patients “are quick to lash out when they feel threatened.”
Paraphrase: People suffering from paranoia tend to go crazy and attack anyone when they feel intimidated.
Opinion: This fact is interesting to take into account because it explores reactions of someone suffering from a paranoiac episode.
	3. According to merckmanuals.com, “Doctors think paranoid personality disorder runs in families. Childhood experiences (such as being abused) may make someone more likely to get paranoid personality disorder.”
Paraphrase: Professionals believe that the paranoiac disorder is a consequence from the environmental past of a child. Children who’ve experienced abuse growing up are more likely to develop paranoia in their future.
Opinion: This fact is valuable because there are many different beliefs people associate as to what causes paranoia and most of these are myths. Having this fact affirms the cause of paranoia.

Level 3 - Application: Common Myths Surrounding Paranoia
1. According to therecoveryvillage.com, “Hallucinations are a symptom of paranoid personality disorder.”
Paraphrase: It is very often believed that people suffering from paranoid personality disorder experience hallucinations (the apparent perception of something that is not present in the real world) as a symptom of their disorder.
Opinion: Although it is understandable to see where this is coming from, people must understand that there is a difference between paranoia and schizophrenia. This myth characterises them both into one category and we must realise that paranoiac patients do not suffer hallucinations. The only times a patient with paranoia will experience hallucinations is when they have paranoid schizophrenia, a subtype of paranoia.
	2. According to therecoveryvillage.com, “Paranoid personality disorder is easily treated.”
Paraphrase: It is frequently believed that it is very simple to treat someone suffering from paranoid personality disorder.
Opinion: It is important for people to realise that this statement is in fact a myth. One of the main reasons for the treatment requiring a lot more work is due to the fact the patient does not trust the medical care taker.
	3. According to therecoveryvillage.com, “People with paranoid personality disorder are just socially awkward.”
Paraphrase: Many unfortunately believe that Social awkwardness is all a paranoid personality disorder patients have and are experiencing.
Opinion: It is important for people to realise that the reason patients suffering from paranoid personality disorder are so socially awkward at times is due to the mistrust that comes with the disorder. If more people realise this, rather than assuming the patient is just socially awkward, they could now take the time to attempt initiating conversations.


Level 4 - Analysis: Subtypes of Paranoia
1. According to betterhealth.vic.gov.au, the mildest type of paranoia is paranoid personality disorder. “Most people with paranoid personality disorder function well despite their mistrust of the world. The attitudes and behaviours associated with this disorder, when they become obvious, are often discovered to have been present for much of the person’s life.”
Paraphrase: paranoid personality disorder, the mildest of the paranoia types is where patients operate well even with their distrust of others as they’ve adapted to the behaviours of the disorder throughout their lives.
Opinion: This quote shows us how and why his type of paranoia is the mildest of the three types. It gives us a better understanding on how someone can adapt and overcome the behaviours of the disorder.
	2. According to betterhealth.vic.gov.au, Delusional (paranoid) disorder is “characterised by the dominance of one delusion (false belief) without any other sign of mental illness. The person’s behaviour depends on which delusion they have. For example, a person who has a delusion of persecution believes that other people are spying on them or plotting to harm them in some way. Stalking can be the result of delusional (paranoid) disorder – for example, the person believes they are in a relationship with a movie star they have never met. In another case, a person may imagine they have a terrible illness, despite repeated reassurance from doctors.”
Paraphrase: Delusional disorder is when a patient suffers mainly from one delusion and does not experience any other behaviours of the paranoia disorder.
Opinion: This definition of the subtype of paranoia shows us that someone suffering from paranoia does not need to have each type of delusion. The definition explains nicely how this comes to be and provides an example to clarify the subtype of the disorder.
	3. According to betterhealth.vic.gov.au, the most severe type of paranoia is paranoid schizophrenia. Paranoid schizophrenia “is characterised by strange delusions, such as believing that one’s thoughts are being broadcast over the radio. Hallucinations, especially bizarre ones, are also common to the condition. A person with paranoid schizophrenia often finds the world confusing and functions poorly without treatment.”
Paraphrase: Paranoid schizophrenia, the most severe type of paranoia is when a patient suffers from Hallucinations which make no sense at all. They also often believe in atypical delusions which could potentially result in social awkwardness in society.
Opinion: This definition is good because it shows us how severe paranoia could get. The definition gives many examples to support claims and clearly explains to us how paranoid schizophrenia works.

Level 5 - Synthesis: Causes and Consequences of Paranoia
	1. According to webmd.com, “A single restless night probably won’t cause paranoid thoughts. But if you often go without sleep, it can start to take a toll. You might not think as clearly, and you’re more likely to clash with others or have misunderstandings with them. It may start to look like people are working against you when they’re just acting like they always do. If you go without sleep for long enough, you could even start to see and hear things that aren’t there (your doctor will call them hallucinations).”
Paraphrase: Although lack of sleep on an infrequent occurrence is fine, consistent lack of sleep will trigger some paranoia to commence in a person’s life. With enough fatigue a person will begin believing everyone is against them if the tiredness doesn’t go away, a person may even begin hallucinating.
Opinion: The quote provides good information on one possible cause of paranoia and how if this issue doesn’t get solved, the condition of the paranoia will worsen.
	2. According to webmd.com, “When the tension ratchets up in your life, you could start to feel more suspicious of other people. And the stress doesn’t have to be something negative like illness or job loss. Even a happy occasion, like a wedding, can create a kind of stress that brings out paranoid thoughts along with the joy.”
Paraphrase: Stress in one's life, being positive or not can be a leading factor in paranoiac thoughts present in someone’s life. 
Opinion: Although this may be true about stress and paranoia, this quote seems to only explore temporary paranoia developed by stressful events. The quote fails to mention what occurs if the stress never goes away and how serious the paranoia experienced from stress is.
	3. According to webnd.com, “Drugs like marijuana, hallucinogens (LSD, psychotropic mushrooms), and stimulants (cocaine, methamphetamine) have chemicals that make some people paranoid for short periods. Once the chemicals leave your system, the paranoia goes away, too. Days or weeks of intense alcohol abuse also can cause short-term paranoia, and over the long term, it can lead to ongoing paranoia and even hallucinations.” 
Paraphrase: Many recreational and pharmaceutical drugs contain substances which can cause short term paranoia. However when the substances wear out, the paranoia should go away as well. Intense alcohol abuse can also be a cause of short-term paranoia. Long term abuse of these substances may even form an ongoing paranoia in a person’s life.
Opinion: This quote is valid because it explains how persistent substance abuse can lead to an ongoing paranoia. The quote explains why and how these drugs cause paranoia in someone’s mind.
	4. According to my.clevelandclinic.org, “people with PPD (paranoid personality disorder) may Doubt the commitment, loyalty or trustworthiness of others, believing others are exploiting or deceiving them.”
Paraphrase: People with paranoia may experience delusions that people are out for them. They will begin doubting any relationship in their lives.
Opinion: This quote explains simply one of the biggest consequences of  paranoia, the growing fear that everyone is untrustworthy.
	5. According to brightquest.com, if paranoia is not treated, it could lead to “Co-occuring mental illnesses, like depression or anxiety disorders.”
Paraphrase: If the condition of paranoia is not treated, the person suffering may begin suffering from more mental illnesses as a consequence of the untreated condition.
Opinion: This quote shows the seriousness of why paranoia should not be left untreated and how it could take a turn for the worse.
	6. According to mind.org.uk, “Paranoid thoughts can make you feel alone. You might feel as if no one understands you, and it can be hard when other people don't believe what feels very real to you. If you avoid people or stay indoors a lot, you may feel even more isolated.”
Paraphrase: As a result of the paranoia disorder, people often suffer the feeling of loneliness and being isolated from the rest of the world. They find it hard to interact with others as they believe no one understands them. 
Opinion: This quote helps us understand what’s going on in the head of a paranoid person as a result of their condition. Knowing how they feel can help understand how to approach them and how we could possibly help them get better.


Level 6 - Evaluation: Treatments for Paranoia
1. According to webnd.com, “If you feel that you’re losing touch with reality, a doctor or mental health professional is the best place to start. Because you can still tell that your thoughts aren’t reasonable, there are things you can do to help.”
Paraphrase: If one begins to experience  symptoms of paranoia, it is best to see a professional right away as you are still in control of your thoughts and the condition is still young.
Opinion: This quote gives a good prevention and treatment against a newly developing form of paranoia however, this technique wouldn’t be effective against a more severe form of paranoia.
	2. According to webnd.com, “it can actually help to talk to yourself about paranoid thoughts. This works only while you can still tell that your thoughts are not reasonable. Keep it realistic. Instead of thinking to yourself ‘I’m crazy’ or ‘I’m paranoid,’ try something like: ‘I’m worried about something that’s highly unlikely to be true’.” 
Paraphrase: Another great method for helping with paranoiac thoughts is talking to oneself. Although it isn’t effective in severe cases of the disorder, this technique helps in keeping one’s thoughts clear and reasonable.
Opinion: This treatment is a good suggestion for keeping the paranoiac thoughts out of one's head. It allows them to take a grip on their mind and realise what's happening. Unfortunately this technique is not effective on severe types of paranoia.
	3. According to mind.org.uk, “If you have a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia or delusional disorder, you are likely to be offered an antipsychotic drug to reduce your symptoms. Antipsychotics may reduce paranoid thoughts or make you feel less threatened by them.
Paraphrase: If someone suffering from paranoid schizophrenia or delusional disorder, they can be offered antipsychotics. These drugs are used to lower any symptoms of paranoia resulting in the patient being able to have control over their mind.
Opinion: The quote here suggests a good method to fight more severe types of paranoia although doesn’t list any of the specific types of antipsychotics used for instances of paranoia.


Part B: Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
 
Level 1 - Knowledge: Defining Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD)
1. According to nimh.nih.gov, “Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is a common, chronic, and long-lasting disorder in which a person has uncontrollable, reoccurring thoughts (obsessions) and/or behaviours (compulsions) that he or she feels the urge to repeat over and over.”
Paraphrase: Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is a chronic and persistent mental illness. People suffering from OCD often experience uncontrollable, recurrent obsessions and behaviours.
Opinion: This definition clearly brings up the key components of OCD. Although it isn’t very much in detail, it gives an idea on what OCD is all about.
	2. According to Oxford Languages, OCD is “a personality disorder characterised by excessive orderliness, perfectionism, attention to details, and a need for control in relating to others.”
Paraphrase: OCD is a personality disorder where patients suffer from always needing to be organised, perfect, and have an intense focus on details and control.
Opinion: This definition is simple to understand and gives us many examples on what some of the key components of OCD are.
	3. According to webnd.com, “Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a mental illness that causes repeated unwanted thoughts or sensations (obsessions) or the urge to do something over and over again (compulsions). Some people can have both obsessions and compulsions.”
Paraphrase: OCD includes obsessions and or compulsions which are thoughts and actions that are caused by the patient's brain. These behaviours tend to be repetitive and unwanted however the patient has no control over it.
Opinion: This definition is valid as it teaches what kind of behaviours a person suffering from OCD has to go through. Although the definition does not go into much depth about these behaviours.

Level 2 - Comprehension: Facts Surrounding Obsessive-Compulsionary Disorder
1. According to the World Health Organization, “anxiety disorders, like OCD, are more prevalent in developed countries than in developing countries.”
Paraphrase: OCD is more present in countries that are considered more developed compared to lesser developed countries.
Opinion: Although this fact is very interesting and gives us an idea on where OCD is present in our world, it does not give us any information as to why this is the fact.
	2. According to dosomething.org, “In the U.S. 1 in 40 adults and 1 in 100 children face OCD.”
Paraphrase: OCD affects 1 in 40 adults as well as 1 in 100 children in the United States.
Opinion: This fact is crucial information as it informs us how common OCD is within the United States. However, these stats do not inform us about the rest of the world.
	3. According to dosomething.org, People with family members who suffer from OCD might be predisposed to the illness. Also, as an anxiety disorder, experts believe that OCD might also be linked to levels of serotonin in the brain and stress or illness may trigger its symptoms.
Paraphrase: There are greater chances of developing the illness of OCD if previous family members suffered from OCD. This means there is a genetic aspect to OCD. Professionals believe OCD is also linked to stress in the brain and serotonin levels.
Opinion: I believe this fact contains some great information on OCD. The quote talks about some of the causes of OCD while also going into detail about them. 

Level 3 - Application: Common Myths Surrounding Obsessive-Compulsionary Disorder
1. According to goodtherapy.org, OCD is a mental superpower that can make you a brilliant doctor, detective, or inventor.
Paraphrase: One myth about OCD is that people believe having OCD gives you an advantage in life. People believe with OCD you can achieve greater things.
Opinion: It is important for people to know that this is false so that they can empathise with the person suffering from OCD. If people believe it's a benefit, some may get jealous and OCD patients won't get the help they need.
	2. According to goodtherapy.org, “OCD only shows up in privileged people who have too much time or too few problems.”
Paraphrase: It is believed that only rich and advantaged individuals with an excessive amount of free time and living with very few difficulties can diagnose OCD in their lives.
Opinion: It is important to note that everyone is capable of being diagnosed with OCD and not just the wealthy rich. This quote clearly speaks out one of the major myths revolving around OCD.
	3. According to therecoveryvillage.com, “OCD is caused by a troubled childhood.
Paraphrase: It is often believed that OCD is developed due to someone being brought up with a childhood characterised by abuse and violence. 
Opinion: Although this is indeed a fact, it isn’t all the absolute truth as OCD has much more than a single cause. It is important for people to know that many individuals suffering from OCD have never reported any incidents of childhood trauma.


Level 4 - Analysis: Subtypes of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder
1. According to talkspace.com, “People who have a cleaning or contamination OCD tend to focus on fear or intense feelings of discomfort that results from contamination or uncleanliness. Washing excessively is normal and is done in an attempt to relieve the feelings of distress.”
Paraphrase: Someone suffering from a cleaning or contamination OCD will always be afraid that everything is contaminated and unclean. This results in the feeling that one needs to always be cleaning everything, afraid of what would happen if they don't. 
Opinion: The chosen quote explains nicely and clearly what cleaning/contamination OCD is and how it affects a patient suffering from this strand of the illness. 
	2. According to talkspace.com, “Hoarding OCD is now actually recognized as its own diagnosis in the DSM-5. When someone hoards, they collect items that typically don’t have much value. Magazines, notes, clothing, games, containers — a hoarder may keep so many of these items, their home becomes virtually unlivable as it’s so filled with clutter.”
Paraphrase: Hoarding is a type of OCD where someone collects and keeps useless items. Sometimes, over time, a hoarder’s collection of things grows so big that it's no longer possible to live in their home.
Opinion: Hoarding is one of the more serious types of OCD and this definition does a great job at explaining exactly what hoarding is and how it can get bad over time. However, the quote fails to mention any of the causes on why hoarders hoard so much.
3. According to talkspace.com, “Harm OCD involves extreme feelings or worry that you’ll harm yourself or others. In order to relieve these unwanted thoughts, you might use what’s known as checking rituals.” 
Paraphrase: One type of OCD is called Harm OCD. Patients suffering from harm OCD often fear that they will end up harming themselves or others. They have this constant thought in the back of their head worrying them that they will potentially endanger the people around them. To help calm these thoughts, they often turn to checking rituals.
Opinion: I found this definition of harm OCD lacked some crucial information. The definition did not explain much about why this happens and never mentioned what checking rituals were. However the definition did cover what harm OCD is and provided some information on how it affects a person’s mental state.

Level 5 - Synthesis: Causes and Consequences of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder
1. According to ocduk.org, “Some research points to the likelihood that OCD sufferers will have a family member with OCD or with one of the other disorders in the OCD ‘spectrum’. In 2001, a meta-analytic review reported that a person with OCD is 4 times more likely to have another family member with OCD than a person who does not have the disorder
Paraphrase: One cause that researchers believe results in the development of the OCD illness is that the disorder is genetically transmitted. It is reported that someone who has OCD is more likely to be genetically related to someone else with OCD than someone who doesn’t suffer from the disorder.
Opinion: Although there is proof that OCD can be genetically transmitted, it is not the only way one can develop OCD. However the quote does give nice information on the genetic cause of OCD.
	2. According to ocduk.org, “Streptococcal infections trigger an immune response, which in some individuals generates antibodies that cross-react with the basal ganglia. The explanation was that some children begin to exhibit OCD symptoms after a severe strep throat infection. It is thought that the body’s natural response to infection, the production of certain antibodies, when directed to parts of the brain might be linked in some way to Paediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders associated with Streptococcal Infection (PANDAS).”
Paraphrase: The PANDAS (Paediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders) cause of OCD is only found in children. This is when a child develops OCD previous to a streptococcal infection. As the brain is attempting to fight the infection, parts of the brain send out antibodies which end up resulting in OCD symptoms.
Opinion: Overall this description is very detailed and provides all the information needed to understand this cause of OCD referred to as PANDAS. The quote goes over what exactly is PANDAS and how it happens in the brain.
	3. According to ocduk.org, “Brain imaging studies have consistently demonstrated differing blood flow patterns among people with OCD compared with controls, and the cortical and basal ganglia regions are most strongly implicated. However, subsequent meta-analysis studies found that differences between people with OCD and healthy controls were found consistently only in the orbital gyrus and the head of the caudate nucleus.
Paraphrase: Biological factors also play a role in the development of OCD for some patients. Looking at brain scans, we can compare the brains of a person with OCD and of a person without OCD. Looking at those scans, we can see the regions which are reacting when any behaviours of OCD are present.
Opinion: This explanation of how biological factors can affect the development of OCD is very clear and detailed. The quote describes exactly how biological factors cause OCD and how we could even detect it using medical technology.
	4. According to betterhealth.vic.gov.au, “OCD can make it difficult for people to perform everyday activities like eating, drinking, shopping or reading. Some people may become housebound. OCD is often compounded by depression and other anxiety disorders, including social anxiety, panic disorder and separation anxiety.”
Paraphrase: Someone living with OCD has a very hard time to socialise and perform in normal activities. As they are afraid to socialise, they end up never going out. In the end, this can result in the development of more mental illnesses.
Opinion: This quote marks a serious consequence of OCD, the loss of a social life. The quote explains why people with OCD don’t go out anymore and how it could develop into a bigger problem along the line.
	5. According to pulsetms.com, “untreated OCD can also trigger clinical depression in vulnerable individuals.issue that affects people of all demographics and socio-economic classes. OCD is an adverse neurological condition, affecting millions of men, women, and children worldwide. The disorder can be so disruptive if left untreated that it is in the top 20 causes of illness-related disabilities worldwide. Untreated OCD can lead to physical illness, and also cause depression and severe anxiety. ”
Paraphrase: If a person suffering from OCD never seeks help, the condition will only worsen and the patient may even develop more severe mental illnesses such as depressions, anxieties and physical illnesses.
Opinion: The quote does a good job at delivering the severity of OCD and why someone suffering symptoms of OCD should seek professional help. The description is very descriptive and offers plenty of examples to support the claims.
	6. According to mind.org.uk, OCD can lead to “Disruption to your day-to-day life. Repeating compulsions can take up a lot of time, and you might avoid certain situations that trigger your OCD. This can mean that you're not able to go to work, see family and friends, eat out or even go outside. Obsessive thoughts can make it hard to concentrate and leave you feeling exhausted.”
Paraphrase: OCD takes up a lot of a person’s time. All the compulsions and behaviours are constant disruptions to an OCD patient’s life. Oftentimes these behaviours are triggered by certain things which the patient needs to avoid. All this results in a hard time when going out.
Opinion: This quote is informative and well structured. It does a fine job at explaining one major consequence of OCD, the amount of time wasted avoiding triggers and spent on disruptions.

Level 6 - Evaluation: Treatments for OCD
1. According to adaa.org, “The psychotherapy of choice for the treatment of OCD is exposure and response prevention (ERP), which is a form of CBT. In ERP therapy, people who have OCD are placed in situations where they are gradually exposed to their obsessions and asked not to perform the compulsions that usually ease their anxiety and distress. This is done at your pace; your therapist should never force you to do anything that you do not want to do.”
Paraphrase: Exposure and response prevention (ERP) is when a person with OCD is placed in an environment with one of their triggers. Therapists then tell the patient to not give in to their obsessions. With time the patient will eventually no longer have obsessions to their triggers anymore.
Opinion: The quote does a good job explaining what ERP treatment is and how it can help someone with OCD. Many details are provided on the procedure and the role the therapist plays in this treatment.
2. According to nhs.uk, “The main medicines prescribed are a type of antidepressant called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). An SSRI can help improve OCD symptoms by increasing the levels of a chemical called serotonin in your brain.”
Paraphrase: One treatment for OCD includes medicine. One type of medication prescribed to OCD patients is serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). These meds are antidepressants. As these meds increase the serotonin level in your brain, it could help with lowering OCD symptoms.
Opinion: The quote explains that these drugs help with OCD however, it never explains how boosting serotonin in the brain can help with OCD. The description is good yet it lacks information.
3. According to webmd.com, “In rare cases, when therapy and medication aren’t making enough of a difference, your doctor might talk to you about devices that change the electrical activity in a certain area of your brain. One kind, transcranial magnetic stimulation, is FDA-approved for OCD treatment. It uses magnetic fields to stimulate nerve cells. A more complicated procedure, deep brain stimulation, uses electrodes that are implanted in your head.”
Paraphrase: If no other treatments are working, a device can actually be implanted in a patient's brain. This device will change the electrical activities in the person’s brain that trigger the OCD symptoms. With these electrical impulses modified, OCD symptoms should be gone.
Opinion: The description of this solution for OCD is well written and provides enough information to understand the gist of things. However, this topic has a lot more to it than is written.


Part C: Comparison and Contrast

1. Topic A:
Name: Paranoia
Description:Paranoia is a mental condition where a patient suffering from it experiences the feelings of distrust, jealousy, feelings that one is trying to harm them.
Reason: The reason I chose paranoia is because one of my family members abroad is currently living through paranoia. I wanted to try and learn more about the disorder and maybe try to help with suggestions.
2. Topic B:
Name: Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder
Description: OCD includes obsessions and or compulsions which are thoughts and actions that are caused by the patient's brain. These behaviours tend to be repetitive and unwanted however the patient has no control over it.
Reason: I chose to study OCD because it's a disorder I always hear about yet never really understood the full image. People tend to say they have OCD when they are really organised but I wanted to know what it was actually like to have OCD

3. Summary of Topic A:
Level 1
Definition: According to webmd, “Paranoia is the feeling that you’re being threatened in some way, such as people watching you or acting against you, even though there’s no proof that it’s true. It happens to a lot of people at some point. Even when you know that your concerns aren’t based in reality, they can be troubling if they happen too often.”
Paraphrase: People suffering from paranoia are terrorized by the delusion that anyone could be after them besides the fact that it isn’t true.
Opinion: This definition further confirms the point that paranoia is located in the mind as even though it isn’t true, they still believe someone is after them.
Reason: I chose to choose this description as it offered the most detailed definition of the three. 

Level 2
Fact: According to merckmanuals.com, “Doctors think paranoid personality disorder runs in families. Childhood experiences (such as being abused) may make someone more likely to get paranoid personality disorder.”
Paraphrase: Professionals believe that the paranoiac disorder is a consequence from the environmental past of a child. Children who’ve experienced abuse growing up are more likely to develop paranoia in their future.
Opinion: This fact is valuable because there are many different beliefs people associate as to what causes paranoia and most of these are myths. Having this fact affirms the cause of paranoia.
Reason: I chose this fact as I found it to be the most interesting of the three because it explains a possible reason for paranoia.

	Level 3
 Myth:According to therecoveryvillage.com, “Paranoid personality disorder is easily treated.”
Paraphrase: It is frequently believed that it is very simple to treat someone suffering from paranoid personality disorder.
Opinion: It is important for people to realise that this statement is in fact a myth. One of the main reasons for the treatment requiring a lot more work is due to the fact the patient does not trust the medical care taker.
Reason: I believe of the three myths this one is the most important for people to know is a myth.

	Level 4
Type: According to betterhealth.vic.gov.au, the most severe type of paranoia is paranoid schizophrenia. Paranoid schizophrenia “is characterised by strange delusions, such as believing that one’s thoughts are being broadcast over the radio. Hallucinations, especially bizarre ones, are also common to the condition. A person with paranoid schizophrenia often finds the world confusing and functions poorly without treatment.”
Paraphrase: Paranoid schizophrenia, the most severe type of paranoia is when a patient suffers from Hallucinations which make no sense at all. They also often believe in atypical delusions which could potentially result in social awkwardness in society.
Opinion: This definition is good because it shows us how severe paranoia could get. The definition gives many examples to support claims and clearly explains to us how paranoid schizophrenia works.
Reason: I chose this type of paranoia as I found it most interesting to learn how both paranoia and schizophrenia could mix together.

	Level 5
Cause/Consequences: According to webnd.com, “Drugs like marijuana, hallucinogens (LSD, psychotropic mushrooms), and stimulants (cocaine, methamphetamine) have chemicals that make some people paranoid for short periods. Once the chemicals leave your system, the paranoia goes away, too. Days or weeks of intense alcohol abuse also can cause short-term paranoia, and over the long term, it can lead to ongoing paranoia and even hallucinations.” 
Paraphrase: Many recreational and pharmaceutical drugs contain substances which can cause short term paranoia. However when the substances wear out, the paranoia should go away as well. Intense alcohol abuse can also be a cause of short-term paranoia. Long term abuse of these substances may even form an ongoing paranoia in a person’s life.
Opinion: This quote is valid because it explains how persistent substance abuse can lead to an ongoing paranoia. The quote explains why and how these drugs cause paranoia in someone’s mind.
Reason: I chose this cause because I believe it is important for people to know what they’re getting into when trying recreational drugs.
	


Level 6
Treatment: According to mind.org.uk, “If you have a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia or delusional disorder, you are likely to be offered an antipsychotic drug to reduce your symptoms. Antipsychotics may reduce paranoid thoughts or make you feel less threatened by them.
Paraphrase: If someone suffering from paranoid schizophrenia or delusional disorder, they can be offered antipsychotics. These drugs are used to lower any symptoms of paranoia resulting in the patient being able to have control over their mind.
Opinion: The quote here suggests a good method to fight more severe types of paranoia although doesn’t list any of the specific types of antipsychotics used for instances of paranoia.
Reason: I decided to choose this treatment as it deals with the most severe type of paranoia.

4. Summary of Topic B:
	Level 1
Definition:According to nimh.nih.gov, “Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is a common, chronic, and long-lasting disorder in which a person has uncontrollable, reoccurring thoughts (obsessions) and/or behaviours (compulsions) that he or she feels the urge to repeat over and over.”
Paraphrase: Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is a chronic and persistent mental illness. People suffering from OCD often experience uncontrollable, recurrent obsessions and behaviours.
Opinion: This definition clearly brings up the key components of OCD. Although it isn’t very much in detail, it gives an idea on what OCD is all about.
Reason: I found this definition the simplest to understand for one who doesn’t know what OCD is
	
	Level 2
Fact: According to dosomething.org, People with family members who suffer from OCD might be predisposed to the illness. Also, as an anxiety disorder, experts believe that OCD might also be linked to levels of serotonin in the brain and stress or illness may trigger its symptoms.
Paraphrase: There are greater chances of developing the illness of OCD if previous family members suffered from OCD. This means there is a genetic aspect to OCD. Professionals believe OCD is also linked to stress in the brain and serotonin levels.
Opinion: I believe this fact contains some great information on OCD. The quote talks about some of the causes of OCD while also going into detail about them. 
Reason: I found this fact most interesting compared to the others. The fact talked about how it is easier to be diagnosed with OCD if a family member also had it. Knowing the cause of this disorder can help with finding new ways of eliminating the illness.

	Level 3
Myth: According to goodtherapy.org, OCD is a mental superpower that can make you a brilliant doctor, detective, or inventor.
Paraphrase: One myth about OCD is that people believe having OCD gives you an advantage in life. People believe with OCD you can achieve greater things.
Opinion: It is important for people to know that this is false so that they can empathise with the person suffering from OCD. If people believe it's a benefit, some may get jealous and OCD patients won't get the help they need.
Reason: I found this myth particularly interesting and strange. I never knew people considered OCD a super power and when I initially read this, I was quite surprised.

	Level 4:
Type: According to talkspace.com, “Hoarding OCD is now actually recognized as its own diagnosis in the DSM-5. When someone hoards, they collect items that typically don’t have much value. Magazines, notes, clothing, games, containers — a hoarder may keep so many of these items, their home becomes virtually unlivable as it’s so filled with clutter.”
Paraphrase: Hoarding is a type of OCD where someone collects and keeps useless items. Sometimes, over time, a hoarder’s collection of things grows so big that it's no longer possible to live in their home.
Opinion: Hoarding is one of the more serious types of OCD and this definition does a great job at explaining exactly what hoarding is and how it can get bad over time. However, the quote fails to mention any of the causes on why hoarders hoard so much.
Reason: I’ve heard of hoarding in the past yet never knew it was a type of OCD. I find it crazy how bad hoarding could get and always thought hoarding was just a word people used to call who never throw things out. I never knew it was an actual mental illness.

	Level 5
Causes/Consequences: According to betterhealth.vic.gov.au, “OCD can make it difficult for people to perform everyday activities like eating, drinking, shopping or reading. Some people may become housebound. OCD is often compounded by depression and other anxiety disorders, including social anxiety, panic disorder and separation anxiety.”
Paraphrase: Someone living with OCD has a very hard time to socialise and perform in normal activities. As they are afraid to socialise, they end up never going out. In the end, this can result in the development of more mental illnesses.
Opinion: This quote marks a serious consequence of OCD, the loss of a social life. The quote explains why people with OCD don’t go out anymore and how it could develop into a bigger problem along the line.
Reason: I chose this consequence of OCD because it talks about one of the biggest struggles of someone suffering from the disorder, the social aspect of life.
	
	Level 6:
Treatment: According to webmd.com, “In rare cases, when therapy and medication aren’t making enough of a difference, your doctor might talk to you about devices that change the electrical activity in a certain area of your brain. One kind, transcranial magnetic stimulation, is FDA-approved for OCD treatment. It uses magnetic fields to stimulate nerve cells. A more complicated procedure, deep brain stimulation, uses electrodes that are implanted in your head.”
Paraphrase: If no other treatments are working, a device can actually be implanted in a patient's brain. This device will change the electrical activities in the person’s brain that trigger the OCD symptoms. With these electrical impulses modified, OCD symptoms should be gone.
Opinion: The description of this solution for OCD is well written and provides enough information to understand the gist of things. However, this topic has a lot more to it than is written.
Reason: I found the use of boosting serotonin levels in someone’s brain to lower symptoms and behaviours of OCD quite interesting. Upon researching OCD, I never knew both OCD and serotonin had a link.

5. Comparison of A & B
One major similarity between paranoia and OCD is one of their treatments. Medical Professionals can prescribe SSRIs for both OCD and paranoia. These antidepressants boost serotonin levels in the brain. This means both the disorders are linked to serotonin.
Another similarity the two disorders share is that they can both be genetically transmitted. It is known that chances of developing OCD are greater if the individual is related to someone who already had OCD. Just like for OCD, it is the same for paranoia. Chances of having paranoia are higher if an individual is related to someone who suffers from paranoia.
Individuals suffering from OCD feel as if no one in the world understands them. As a result, they tend to shut themselves from the world. Similarly, people suffering from paranoia also tend to shut themselves from the world as well. This is because they believe they cannot trust anyone.

6. Contrast of A & B
Both OCD and paranoia are two very different things. Someone suffering from OCD will experience repetitive thoughts and behaviours that are out of their control. Someone suffering from paranoia will experience mainly fears. They tend not to trust anyone as they believe people are trying to harm and trick them.
One symptom in more severe cases of paranoia is experiencing hallucinations. Hallucinations are not a symptom found in people suffering from OCD.
Due to PANDAS it is possible for children of young age to develop OCD following a streptococcal infection. According to my.clevelandclinic.org, paranoia “usually starts between ages 15 and 25 for people assigned male at birth and between 25 and 35 for people assigned female at birth.” This being the majority of paranoia cases begin between the ages of 15 and 35. This means that kids of young age can develop OCD however, they cannot develop paranoia.
7. Greater Challenge
Although they seem to be as equally bad as each other, I believe OCD is harder to live with than paranoia. My reason for believing this is because when someone knows they have OCD, they still cannot control their mind. This means even while knowing they suffer from OCD, they will still perform repetitive thoughts and behaviours that are out of their control. When someone knows they are paranoiac, their problems won’t go away right away however, knowing you have paranoia can help with gaining control of your mind. This could help with treating paranoiac thoughts in one’s mind.

8. Ease of Treatment
I believe paranoia is easier to treat than OCD. The main treatments for paranoia consist of reminding yourself you have paranoia. With this realisation, it is easier to try and trust people as you know that it is in fact your brain playing tricks on you. When treating OCD, patients must be exposed to their triggers and are told not to react as they normally would. This could be very hard for people suffering from the disorder and going at the rate of the patient can take a very long period of time.

